fix: add ADR for domain language (#2541)
Unleash/unleash: website/docs/contributing/general/ADR/domain-language.md

---
title: "ADR: Domain language"
---

## Background

In the codebase, we have seen the need to define a domain language that we use to refer to features, methods to keep it consistent across the codebase. This ADR will contain a growing list of domain language used to keep the consistency across the codebase.

## Decision

We have decided to use the same domain language for the features we develop. Each feature will have it's own domain language to keep it consistent across the codebase.

## Change requests domain language

* *Change request*

> An entity referring to the overarching data structure of a change request. A change request contains changes, and can be approved or rejected.

Reviewer: Alternative Suggestion "A  change request contains a collection of changes" (or a group, a set, a list if  you find a problem with _collection_ wording). Basically I suggest emphasizing there's a **group** of changes, in a stronger way than just using the plural.

> * *Change request*
> 
> An entity referring to the overarching data structure of a change request. A change request contains changes, and can be approved or rejected.

Reviewer 2: We can use lists for listing terms, but please make sure they're treated as a single list in that case, and not as multiple lists (as is the case right now). Optionally, use a [description list](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/HTML/Element/dl) (sadly, markdown doesn't have anything that maps directly to it, so you'll need to mark it up with raw html in that case).

If you just want to turn it into a single list, consider placing the term and the definition on the same line, separated by a colon.

```suggestion
* *Change request*: An entity referring to the overarching data structure of a change request. A change request contains changes, and can be approved or rejected.
```

* *Changes*

> An entity referring to a single change within a change request

Reviewer 2: Is this correct? Isn't "changes" a "list of changes" and not a single change? This is unclear to me. Also, what is "an entity" in this context?

* *Discard*

> A naming convention used for deleting a single change of a change request, or discarding an entire change request

Reviewer: I suggest being more precise than "a naming convention". This is fine, but as reader I doubt: _a naming convention for whom ? where ?_  
Maybe using "_a naming convention in the UI_" or "_a naming convention to simplify UX_".

* *Pending*

> A naming convention used to describe a change requests state. A pending change request is in one of these three states: `Draft | In review | Approved`

Reviewer: Apparently there are 3 well defined underlying states, that we're "masking" under simpler terms for the end user. If that's not the case, please ignore the rest of this comment.
If each sub-state falls under the bigger umbrella of "Pending", I'd appreciate a clarification for the end user point of view. Examples:
- a Draft change is _Pending to be assigned a Reviewer_ 
- an In Review change is _Pending to be Approved_
- an Approved change is _Pending to be applied_

Author: We don't use this term in the user facing code, but rather as our own term for naming the grouping of these states. For the user, they will only relate to the state themselves as modeled: `Draft | In review | Approved | Applied | Cancelled`

> A naming convention used to describe a change requests state. A pending change request is in one of these three states: `Draft | In review | Approved`

Reviewer 2: I sort of agree with @dsusa72's comments on considering UX and legibility as well as the term "naming convention" Would something like this work?

```suggestion
A *pending* change request is one that has not yet been applied or discarded. In other words, it is in one of these three states:
1. `Draft`
2. `In review`
3. `Approved`
```

* *Closed*

> A naming convention used to describe a change requests state. A closed change request is in one of two states: `Applied | Cancelled`

Reviewer 2: Maybe this makes it a little clearer? What do you think?

```suggestion
A *closed* change request has either been applied or cancelled and can no longer be changed. Change requests that are either `Applied` or `Cancelled` are considered closed.
```
